---
date: '2020-10-02T17:56:24.758Z'
docname: pyacs.sol.sinex
images: {}
path: /pyacs-sol-sinex
title: pyacs.sol.sinex module
---

# pyacs.sol.sinex module


### pyacs.sol.sinex.glx2snx(glx, snx, dir_snx='.')
converts a GLOBK glx file into a sinex file


### pyacs.sol.sinex.snx2ssc(snx, ssc, dir_ssc)
simplifies a sinex file into a ssc file


### pyacs.sol.sinex.glred_1_day(glx, dir_prt, dir_log, apr, eq_rename=None)
run glred over a day


### class pyacs.sol.sinex.SSinex(name=None, estimates=None, VCV=None)
Bases: `object`

Sinex class: reads and manipulates a Sinex solution.
Sinex (Solution/Technique Independent Exchange format) : Sinex format handling
Description of the Sinex format is available at:
[http://www.iers.org/documents/ac/sinex/sinex_v210_proposal.pdf](http://www.iers.org/documents/ac/sinex/sinex_v210_proposal.pdf)


#### classmethod from_sinex(snx)
Constructs a PYACS Sinex instance from a P. Rebishung sinex instance


#### clear()
Clear the sinex


#### add_site(M)
Adds a Gpoint M in the current Sinex instance


#### subset_from_code(lcode, lsoln=None)
Takes a subset from a SINEX according to a list of code and optionally a list of associated soln.
Returns a dictionary of Gpoint with key (code,soln)


#### subset_from_keys(H)
Takes a subset from a SINEX according to the key of a dictionary made of (code,soln)
Returns a dictionary of Gpoint with key (code,soln)


#### apply_helmert(T, verbose=True)
Applies an Helmert transformation to a SINEX instance
returns a new SINEX instance


#### write_tsxyz(fname, HCOV=None)
Write a tsxyz file from the current Sinex instance


#### common(H_Gpoint, prefit=3.5, strict=True, verbose=True)
Returns a dictionary of Gpoint common to the current Sinex object and a dictionary (code,soln) of Gpoint
Coordinates will be the ones from the Sinex and NOT from the list of Gpoints
commons point are points with the same code pt and soln


#### read_section_estimate(lexclude=[], lonly=[], discontinuity=None, rename=None, verbose=False)
Reads the ESTIMATE section of a SINEX file.
a dictionary with double key 4-letters code and SOLN


* **Parameters**

    
    * **lexclude** – list of code to be excluded from reading


    * **lonly** – lonly code on lonly will be considered


    * **discontinuity** – if provided, discontinuity will be used to populate the SOLN field.


Generated by the Discontinuity module usually from a IGS soln file.
:param rename: a dictionary having as key the sinex file for which rename will be applied and         values a list of tuples (‘OLD_CODE’,’NEW_CODE’). The dictionary is usually generated by the Read_Conf_Pyacs module
:param verbose: boolean for verbose mode


* **Returns**

    a dictionary with double key 4-letters CODE and SOLN and values of Gpoint instance



* **Note**

    Strictly, a point in a SINEX file is defined by several codes, including CODE, PT, DOMES and SOLN.        The choice here is to ignore the PT and DOMES for versatility.



#### write_sinex(sinex_name, Agency_Code='IRD')

#### get_STA(code, epoch, soln=None, soln_file=None, psd_file=None, discontinuity=None, verbose=False)
Provides the predicted coordinates for a site at a given epoch. Accounts for soln and psd if provided.


#### print_STA(code, soln=None)
print STA values for a given code and optional soln


#### add_to_STA(code, soln, add_sta)
add sta [dx,dx,dz] to STA values for a given code and soln


#### change_STA(code, soln, add_sta)
change STA values for a given code and soln


#### site(code, soln)
return site for a given code and soln


#### info_gpoint(code, soln=None)
Print info for a given code and optionally soln


#### lcode()
Returns a list of all point codes in current Sinex object


#### read_apr(lexclude=[], discontinuity=None, rename=None, verbose=False)
Reads a Globk apr file.


* **Parameters**

    
    * **lexclude** – list of code to be excluded from reading


    * **discontinuity** – if provided, discontinuity will be used to populate the SOLN field.


Generated by the Discontinuity module usually from a IGS soln file.
:param rename: a dictionary having as key the sinex file for which rename will be applied and         values a list of tuples (‘OLD_CODE’,’NEW_CODE’). The dictionary is usually generated by the Read_Conf_Pyacs module
:param verbose: boolean for verbose mode


* **Returns**

    a dictionary with double key 4-letters CODE and SOLN and values of Gpoint instance
